Flow of the Student Management System Project

 1. Frontend (JSP Pages)  - signup.jsp: User signs up by entering their
name, email, and password. The form data is sent via a POST request to
the \`Signupcontroller\` servlet.  - login.jsp: Users input their email
and password. The form is submitted to the \`Logincontroller\` servlet
for authentication.  - display.jsp: Displays a table of all students\'
details, fetched after a successful login. It also provides links to
delete or update each student's data.  - edit.jsp: Displays a form with
a student\'s current details, allowing the user to update them.

2. Servlet Controllers  - Signupcontroller (\`/signup\`):  - Handles the
user registration form submission.  - Data is retrieved from the signup
form, converted into a \`Student\` object, and passed to the DAO for
saving in the database.  - On successful signup, the user is redirected
to the login page.  - \*\*Logincontroller\*\* (\`/login\`):  - Handles
the login process.  - Verifies the credentials against the database.  -
If successful, retrieves all students and forwards the user to
\`display.jsp\`.  - If unsuccessful, redirects the user back to the
login page.  - Deletecontroller (\`/delete\`):  - Deletes a student
based on the provided ID.  - Redirects to the updated list of students.
 - Updatecontroller (\`/update\`):  - Retrieves the student by ID and
forwards the data to \`edit.jsp\` for modification.  - Editcontroller
(\`/edit\`):  - Processes the updated data submitted from \`edit.jsp\`.
 - Updates the database with the new student information.

3. DAO Layer (Studentdao Class)  - \`savestudent(Student student)\`:
Saves the student object to the database using JPA.  -
\`loginStudent(String email)\`: Fetches the student based on the email
for login validation.  - \`updateStudent(Student student)\`: Updates an
existing student's details in the database.  - \`deletestudent(int
id)\`: Deletes the student record by its ID.  - \`getstudentbyid(int
id)\`: Retrieves a student's details by their ID.  -
\`getallstudent()\`: Fetches all students from the database.

4. Backend (JPA Entity)  - Student.java:  - Represents the \`Student\`
entity.  - Maps to a database table with fields like \`id\`, \`name\`,
\`email\`, and \`password\`.

File Structure 1. \`webapp\` (JSP Frontend)  - \`signup.jsp\`: Handles
user signup.  - \`login.jsp\`: Handles login.  - \`display.jsp\`:
Displays the list of students.  - \`edit.jsp\`: Provides a form for
editing student information.

2\. studentmanagementsystem.controller (Servlets)  -
Signupcontroller.java: Handles signup logic.  - Logincontroller.java:
Manages user login.  - Deletecontroller.java: Deletes a student.  -
Updatecontroller.java: Fetches the student for editing.  -
Editcontroller.java: Processes student updates.

3\. studentmanagementsystem.dao (DAO Layer)  - Studentdao.java: Handles
database operations for the Student entity.

4\. studentmanagementsystem.dto (Data Transfer Object)  - Student.java:
Represents the Student entity, with fields and methods to handle student
data.

Summary:

Student Management System (Java, Servlets, JSP, Hibernate, MySQL) -
Developed a web-based application for managing student records using
Java Servlets, JSP, and Hibernate. - Implemented user authentication
(login/signup) and CRUD functionalities (create, read, update, delete)
for student data. - Integrated Hibernate ORM for database interactions
and MySQL as the backend database. - Created a DAO layer for managing
database operations, including student registration, login verification,
updating student profiles, and deleting records. - Utilized JSP pages
for user interface, displaying student data, and form submissions.
